---
title: IIIF Consortium Welcomes National Library of Finland
author: IIIF-C Staff
date: 2025-04-07
tags: [news, announcements]
layout: post
excerpt: >
  The International Image Interoperability Framework Consortium is delighted to announce the National Library of Finland has joined as a full member.

---

The International Image Interoperability Framework Consortium is delighted to announce the [National Library of Finland](https://www.kansalliskirjasto.fi/en) has joined the Consortium as a full member. 

The National Library has recently begun a [2-year project](https://www.kansalliskirjasto.fi/en/projects/images-dialogue-advanced-solutions-presenting-visual-cultural-heritage-digitally-various) to implement IIIF across several of the Library’s systems. The project, funded by the [Jane and Aatos Erkko Foundation](https://jaes.fi/en/donations-granted/2024-2/), will allow the Library to implement IIIF across the digital services it maintains (search services, digi.kansalliskirjasto.fi and Finna.fi) and will help the Library support a wide community of researchers and cultural heritage professionals. You can learn more about the National Library of Finland’s roadmap to IIIF adoption by viewing our recent community call, “[IIIF in Finland.](https://youtu.be/lgNaI-vQZs4?feature=shared)”

"We are thrilled to announce that the National Library of Finland has joined the IIIF community and embarked on our journey as a IIIF implementer," stated Kimmo Tuominen, National Librarian. "The IIIF standard, along with the tools developed for it, and the generous grant we have received from the Jane and Aatos Erkko Foundation, empower us to enhance the availability  and usability of Finnish digital cultural heritage for diverse audiences both domestically and globally."

“The National Library of Finland is an important member of IIIF-C,” said Martin Kalfatovic, IIIF-C Managing Director. “The rich and diverse cultural heritage of Finland will be well represented by the National Library as well as the content aggregated in the national Finna.fi platform. In addition, the work of the National Library will lower the threshold for the adoption of the IIIF standard in the broader community of Finland's library, archive, and museum community.”


**About the International Image Interoperability Framework**

IIIF is a set of open standards for delivering high-quality, attributed digital objects online at scale. It’s also an international community developing and implementing the IIIF APIs. IIIF is backed by a consortium of leading cultural institutions.In addition to supporting the IIIF community financially, these institutions contribute to the APIs, Community Groups, and more.



[membership]: {{ site.root_url | absolute_url }}/community/consortium/
[plan]: https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1JMCLToTlijx3ztiPoKigEdmS2je_fYjU0kj-pxhgaM8/edit#slide=id.g2542c596307_0_77
